.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt TERMSCOPE-SESSION 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm termscope-session
.Nd JSON-lines session protocol for termscope
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm termscope session
command launches a child process in a virtual terminal and
communicates via a JSON-lines protocol over stdin/stdout.
This is the
.Dq Playwright mode
designed for AI agents driving terminal applications.
.Pp
Each request is a single JSON object on one line.
Each response is a single JSON object on one line.
Stderr is reserved for diagnostics and never carries protocol data.
.Ss Request Format
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id": N, "method": "name", "params": {...}}
.Ed
.Pp
.Ar id
is a caller-chosen integer for correlating responses.
.Ar method
is the operation name.
.Ar params
is an optional object of method-specific parameters.
.Ss Response Format
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id": N, "result": {...}}
{"id": N, "error": {"code": "...", "message": "..."}}
.Ed
.Pp
Errors do not terminate the session.
The agent decides what to do next.
.Ss Events
When the child process exits on its own:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"event": "child_exit", "exit_code": N}
.Ed
.Pp
After this event, stdout reaches EOF.
.Sh METHODS
.Ss snapshot
Capture the current terminal state.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar format
Output format:
.Dq text
(default),
.Dq json .
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":1,"method":"snapshot"}
{"id":1,"method":"snapshot","params":{"format":"json"}}
.Ed
.Ss type
Send text characters to the terminal.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar text
The string to type.
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":2,"method":"type","params":{"text":"hello"}}
.Ed
.Ss press
Send a key using Emacs notation.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar key
Key notation string.
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":3,"method":"press","params":{"key":"RET"}}
{"id":3,"method":"press","params":{"key":"C-x C-s"}}
.Ed
.Ss wait_for_text
Block until a text pattern appears on the terminal screen.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar pattern
Substring to search for.
.It Ar timeout
Timeout in milliseconds.
Default: 30000.
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":4,"method":"wait_for_text","params":{"pattern":"Ready"}}
.Ed
.Pp
Returns
.Ar found ,
.Ar row ,
and
.Ar col
on success, or an error with code
.Dq timeout .
.Ss wait_for_idle
Wait until the terminal output has settled.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar duration
Idle duration in milliseconds.
Default: 200.
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":5,"method":"wait_for_idle","params":{"duration":200}}
.Ed
.Ss wait_for_cursor
Wait until the cursor reaches a specific position.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar row
Target row (0-indexed).
.It Ar col
Target column (0-indexed).
.It Ar timeout
Timeout in milliseconds.
Default: 30000.
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":6,"method":"wait_for_cursor","params":{"row":0,"col":5}}
.Ed
.Ss query
Get terminal metadata without capturing screen content.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":7,"method":"query"}
.Ed
.Pp
Returns:
.Ar cols ,
.Ar rows ,
.Ar cursor
(as [row, col]),
.Ar cursor_style ,
.Ar cursor_visible ,
.Ar title ,
.Ar alt_screen .
.Ss resize
Change the terminal dimensions.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar cols
New width in cells.
.It Ar rows
New height in cells.
.El
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":8,"method":"resize","params":{"cols":120,"rows":40}}
.Ed
.Ss close
Terminate the child process and end the session.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
{"id":9,"method":"close"}
.Ed
.Pp
Returns
.Ar exit_code .
.Sh SESSION LIFECYCLE
The session starts when
.Cm termscope session -- cmd
launches.
The child process runs immediately.
.Pp
The session ends when:
.Bl -enum
.It
The agent sends
.Dq close .
.It
The child process exits on its own (triggers a
.Dq child_exit
event).
.It
termscope receives SIGTERM or SIGINT.
.El
.Pp
On SIGTERM/SIGINT, termscope sends SIGHUP to the child,
waits up to 2 seconds, then SIGKILL.
.Sh ERROR CODES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It timeout
A wait operation exceeded its timeout.
.It invalid_params
Required parameters are missing or invalid.
.It invalid_key
The key notation string could not be parsed.
.It pty_error
Failed to write to the PTY.
.It parse_error
The request JSON could not be parsed.
.It unknown_method
The method name is not recognized.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr termscope 1
